docs/Chapter7/VNF-On-boarding-and-package-management.rst, before:

.. Modifications Copyright © 2017-2018 AT&T Intellectual Property.

.. Licensed under the Creative Commons License, Attribution 4.0 Intl.
   (the "License"); you may not use this documentation except in compliance
   with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

.. https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.


VNF On-boarding and package management
--------------------------------------

Design Definition
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ONAP Design Time Framework provides the ability to design NFV
resources including VNFs, Services, and products. The VNF provider must
provide VNF packages that include a rich set of recipes, management and
functional interfaces, policies, configuration parameters, and
infrastructure requirements that can be utilized by the ONAP Design
module to onboard and catalog these resources. Initially this
information may be provided in documents, but in the near future a
method will be developed to automate as much of the transfer of data as
possible to satisfy its long term requirements.

The current VNF Package Requirement is based on a subset of the
Requirements contained in the ETSI Document: ETSI GS NFV-MAN 001 v1.1.1
and GS NFV IFA011 V0.3.0 (2015-10) - Network Functions Virtualization
(NFV), Management and Orchestration, VNF Packaging Specification.

Resource Description
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. req::
    :id: R-66070
    :target: VNF Package
    :keyword: MUST
    :updated: dublin

    For HEAT package, the VNF Package **MUST** include VNF Identification Data to
    uniquely identify the resource for a given VNF provider. The identification
    data must include: an identifier for the VNF, the name of the VNF as was
    given by the VNF provider, VNF description, VNF provider, and version.

.. req::
    :id: R-69565
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation describing xNF
    Management APIs, which must include information and tools for ONAP to
    deploy and configure (initially and ongoing) the xNF application(s)
    (e.g., NETCONF APIs) which includes a description of configurable
    parameters for the xNF and whether the parameters can be configured
    after xNF instantiation.

.. req::
    :id: R-00156
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation describing xNF
    Management APIs, which must include information and tools for
    ONAP to monitor the health of the xNF (conditions that require
    healing and/or scaling responses).

.. req::
    :id: R-00068
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation which includes
    a description of parameters that can be monitored for the xNF
    and event records (status, fault, flow, session, call, control
    plane, etc.) generated by the xNF after instantiation.

.. req::
    :id: R-12678
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation which includes a
    description of runtime lifecycle events and related actions (e.g.,
    control responses, tests) which can be performed for the xNF.

.. req::
    :id: R-84366
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation describing
    xNF Functional APIs that are utilized to build network and
    application services. This document describes the externally exposed
    functional inputs and outputs for the xNF, including interface
    format and protocols supported.

.. req::
    :id: R-36280
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** provide documentation describing
    xNF Functional Capabilities that are utilized to operationalize the
    xNF and compose complex services.

.. req::
    :id: R-98617
    :target: VNF PROVIDER
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF Provider **MUST** provide documentation regarding any dependency
    (e.g. affinity, anti-affinity) the VNF has on other VNFs and resources.

.. req::
    :id: R-22346
    :target: VNF or PNF PACKAGE
    :keyword: MUST
    :introduced: casablanca
    :updated: dublin
    :validation_mode: static

    The VNF or PNF package **MUST** provide :doc:`VES Event Registration <../../../../vnfsdk/model.git/docs/files/VESEventRegistration_3_0>`
    for all VES events provided by that VNF or PNF.

.. req::
   :id: R-384337
   :target: VNF
   :keyword: MUST
   :introduced: casablanca

   The VNF documentation **MUST** contain a list of the files within the VNF
   package that are static during the VNF's runtime.

.. req::
   :id: R-025941
   :target: VNF PROVIDER
   :keyword: MUST
   :introduced: dublin
   :impacts: DCAE,Documentation,Integration,SDC
   :validation_mode: static

   The VNF or PNF PROVIDER **MUST** provide FM Meta Data to support the
   analysis of fault events delivered to DCAE. The Meta Data must be
   included in the VES Registration YAML file with each fault event
   supported by that NF at onboarding time and the Meta Data must follow
   the VES Event Listener and VES Event Registration Specifications.


Resource Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


.. req::
    :id: R-89571
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF **MUST** support and provide artifacts for configuration
    management using at least one of the following technologies;
    a) Netconf/YANG, b) Chef, or c) Ansible.

    Note: The requirements for Netconf/YANG, Chef, and Ansible protocols
    are provided separately and must be supported only if the corresponding
    protocol option is provided by the xNF providor.


Configuration Management via NETCONF/YANG
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. req::
    :id: R-30278
    :target: VNF or PNF
    :keyword: SHOULD
    :updated: dublin

    The VNF or PNF provider **SHOULD** provide a Resource/Device YANG model
    as a foundation for creating the YANG model for configuration.

Configuration Management via Chef
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


.. req::
    :id: R-13390
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** provide cookbooks to be loaded
    on the appropriate Chef Server.

.. req::
    :id: R-18525
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** provide a JSON file for each
    supported action for the xNF. The JSON file must contain key value
    pairs with all relevant values populated with sample data that illustrates
    its usage. The fields and their description are defined in Tables A1
    and A2 in the Appendix.

    Note: Chef support in ONAP is not currently available and planned for 4Q 2017.


Configuration Management via Ansible
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


.. req::
    :id: R-75608
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** provide playbooks to be loaded
    on the appropriate Ansible Server.

.. req::
    :id: R-16777
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** provide a JSON file for each
    supported action for the xNF. The JSON file must contain key value
    pairs with all relevant values populated with sample data that illustrates
    its usage. The fields and their description are defined in Table B1
    in the Appendix.

.. req::
    :id: R-46567
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include configuration scripts
    for boot sequence and configuration.

.. req::
    :id: R-16065
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** provide configurable parameters
    (if unable to conform to YANG model) including xNF attributes/parameters
    and valid values, dynamic attributes and cross parameter dependencies
    (e.g., customer provisioning data).

Resource Control Loop
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


.. req::
    :id: R-22888
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** provide documentation for the xNF
    Policy Description to manage the xNF runtime lifecycle. The document
    must include a description of how the policies (conditions and actions)
    are implemented in the xNF.

.. req::
    :id: R-01556
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation describing the
    fault, performance, capacity events/alarms and other event records
    that are made available by the xNF.

.. req::
    :id: R-16875
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation which must include
    a unique identification string for the specific xNF, a description of
    the problem that caused the error, and steps or procedures to perform
    Root Cause Analysis and resolve the issue.

.. req::
    :id: R-35960
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation which must include
    all events, severity level (e.g., informational, warning, error) and
    descriptions including causes/fixes if applicable for the event.

.. req::
    :id: R-42018
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation which must include
    all events (fault, measurement for xNF Scaling, Syslogs, State Change
    and Mobile Flow), that need to be collected at each VM, VNFC (defined in `VNF Guidelines <https://onap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submodules/vnfrqts/guidelines.git/docs/vnf_guidelines/vnf_guidelines.html>`__ ) and for the overall xNF.


.. req::
    :id: R-01478
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation describing all
    parameters that are available to monitor the xNF after instantiation
    (includes all counters, OIDs, PM data, KPIs, etc.) that must be
    collected for reporting purposes.

.. req::
    :id: R-73560
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation about monitoring
    parameters/counters exposed for virtual resource management and xNF
    application management.

.. req::
    :id: R-90632
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF Package **MUST** include documentation about KPIs and
    metrics that need to be collected at each VM for capacity planning
    and performance management purposes.

.. req::
    :id: R-86235
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation about the monitoring
    parameters that must include latencies, success rates, retry rates, load
    and quality (e.g., DPM) for the key transactions/functions supported by
    the xNF and those that must be exercised by the xNF in order to perform
    its function.

.. req::
    :id: R-33904
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation for each KPI, provide
    lower and upper limits.

.. req::
    :id: R-53598
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation to, when relevant,
    provide a threshold crossing alert point for each KPI and describe the
    significance of the threshold crossing.

.. req::
    :id: R-69877
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation for each KPI,
    identify the suggested actions that need to be performed when a
    threshold crossing alert event is recorded.

.. req::
    :id: R-22680
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation that describes
    any requirements for the monitoring component of tools for Network
    Cloud automation and management to provide these records to components
    of the xNF.

.. req::
    :id: R-33694
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation to when applicable,
    provide calculators needed to convert raw data into appropriate reporting
    artifacts.

.. req::
    :id: R-56815
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation describing
    supported xNF scaling capabilities and capacity limits (e.g., number
    of users, bandwidth, throughput, concurrent calls).

.. req::
    :id: R-48596
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation describing
    the characteristics for the xNF reliability and high availability.



Compute, Network, and Storage Requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


.. req::
    :id: R-35851
    :target: VNF HEAT PACKAGE
    :keyword: MUST
    :updated: dublin

    The VNF HEAT Package **MUST** include VNF topology that describes basic
    network and application connectivity internal and external to the VNF
    including Link type, KPIs, Bandwidth, latency, jitter, QoS (if applicable)
    for each interface.

.. req::
    :id: R-97102
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF Package **MUST** include VM requirements via a Heat
    template that provides the necessary data for VM specifications
    for all VNF components - for hypervisor, CPU, memory, storage.

.. req::
    :id: R-20204
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF Package **MUST** include VM requirements via a Heat
    template that provides the necessary data for network connections,
    interface connections, internal and external to VNF.

.. req::
    :id: R-44896
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF Package **MUST** include VM requirements via a Heat
    template that provides the necessary data for high availability
    redundancy model.

.. req::
    :id: R-55802
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF Package **MUST** include VM requirements via a Heat
    template that provides the necessary data for scaling/growth VM
    specifications.

    Note: Must comply with the *Heat requirements in 5.b*.

.. req::
    :id: R-26881
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF provider **MUST** provide the binaries and images
    needed to instantiate the VNF (VNF and VNFC images).

.. req::
    :id: R-96634
    :target: VNF or PNF PROVIDER
    :keyword: MUST
    :updated: dublin

    The VNF or PNF Provider **MUST** provide human readable documentation
    (not in the on-boarding package) to describe scaling capabilities to manage
    scaling characteristics of the VNF or PNF.


Testing
^^^^^^^^^^

.. req::
    :id: R-43958
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST
    :updated: casablanca

    The VNF Package **MUST** include documentation describing
    the tests that were conducted by the VNF provider and the test results.

.. req::
    :id: R-04298
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF provider **MUST** provide their testing scripts to
    support testing.

.. req::
    :id: R-58775
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF provider **MUST** provide software components that
    can be packaged with/near the VNF, if needed, to simulate any functions
    or systems that connect to the VNF system under test. This component is
    necessary only if the existing testing environment does not have the
    necessary simulators.

Licensing Requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


.. req::
    :id: R-85653
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF **MUST** provide metrics (e.g., number of sessions,
    number of subscribers, number of seats, etc.) to ONAP for tracking
    every license.

.. req::
    :id: R-44125
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** agree to the process that can
    be met by Service Provider reporting infrastructure. The Contract
    shall define the reporting process and the available reporting tools.

.. req::
    :id: R-40827
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** enumerate all of the open
    source licenses their xNF(s) incorporate.

.. req::
    :id: R-97293
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST NOT

    The xNF provider **MUST NOT** require audits
    of Service Provider's business.

.. req::
    :id: R-44569
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST NOT

    The xNF provider **MUST NOT** require additional
    infrastructure such as a xNF provider license server for xNF provider
    functions and metrics.

.. req::
    :id: R-13613
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF **MUST** provide clear measurements for licensing
    purposes to allow automated scale up/down by the management system.

.. req::
    :id: R-27511
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF provider **MUST** provide the ability to scale
    up a VNF provider supplied product during growth and scale down a
    VNF provider supplied product during decline without "real-time"
    restrictions based upon VNF provider permissions.

.. req::
    :id: R-85991
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** provide a universal license key
    per xNF to be used as needed by services (i.e., not tied to a VM
    instance) as the recommended solution. The xNF provider may provide
    pools of Unique xNF License Keys, where there is a unique key for
    each xNF instance as an alternate solution. Licensing issues should
    be resolved without interrupting in-service xNFs.

.. req::
    :id: R-47849
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** support the metadata about
    licenses (and their applicable entitlements) as defined in this
    document for xNF software, and any license keys required to authorize
    use of the xNF software.  This metadata will be used to facilitate
    onboarding the xNF into the ONAP environment and automating processes
    for putting the licenses into use and managing the full lifecycle of
    the licenses. The details of this license model are described in
    Tables C1 to C8 in the Appendix.

    Note: License metadata support in ONAP is not currently available
    and planned for 1Q 2018.

Commit message:

VNF Requirements PM Meta Data
Issue-ID: VNFRQTS-523

Change-Id: I83af91039a1a0893aef6f57b1fff35510a624c59
Signed-off-by: marge.hillis <marge.hillis@nokia.com>

docs/Chapter7/VNF-On-boarding-and-package-management.rst, after:

﻿.. Modifications Copyright © 2017-2018 AT&T Intellectual Property.

.. Licensed under the Creative Commons License, Attribution 4.0 Intl.
   (the "License"); you may not use this documentation except in compliance
   with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

.. https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.


VNF On-boarding and package management
--------------------------------------

Design Definition
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ONAP Design Time Framework provides the ability to design NFV
resources including VNFs, Services, and products. The VNF provider must
provide VNF packages that include a rich set of recipes, management and
functional interfaces, policies, configuration parameters, and
infrastructure requirements that can be utilized by the ONAP Design
module to onboard and catalog these resources. Initially this
information may be provided in documents, but in the near future a
method will be developed to automate as much of the transfer of data as
possible to satisfy its long term requirements.

The current VNF Package Requirement is based on a subset of the
Requirements contained in the ETSI Document: ETSI GS NFV-MAN 001 v1.1.1
and GS NFV IFA011 V0.3.0 (2015-10) - Network Functions Virtualization
(NFV), Management and Orchestration, VNF Packaging Specification.

Resource Description
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. req::
    :id: R-66070
    :target: VNF Package
    :keyword: MUST
    :updated: dublin

    For HEAT package, the VNF Package **MUST** include VNF Identification Data to
    uniquely identify the resource for a given VNF provider. The identification
    data must include: an identifier for the VNF, the name of the VNF as was
    given by the VNF provider, VNF description, VNF provider, and version.

.. req::
    :id: R-69565
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation describing xNF
    Management APIs, which must include information and tools for ONAP to
    deploy and configure (initially and ongoing) the xNF application(s)
    (e.g., NETCONF APIs) which includes a description of configurable
    parameters for the xNF and whether the parameters can be configured
    after xNF instantiation.

.. req::
    :id: R-00156
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation describing xNF
    Management APIs, which must include information and tools for
    ONAP to monitor the health of the xNF (conditions that require
    healing and/or scaling responses).

.. req::
    :id: R-00068
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation which includes
    a description of parameters that can be monitored for the xNF
    and event records (status, fault, flow, session, call, control
    plane, etc.) generated by the xNF after instantiation.

.. req::
    :id: R-12678
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation which includes a
    description of runtime lifecycle events and related actions (e.g.,
    control responses, tests) which can be performed for the xNF.

.. req::
    :id: R-84366
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation describing
    xNF Functional APIs that are utilized to build network and
    application services. This document describes the externally exposed
    functional inputs and outputs for the xNF, including interface
    format and protocols supported.

.. req::
    :id: R-36280
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** provide documentation describing
    xNF Functional Capabilities that are utilized to operationalize the
    xNF and compose complex services.

.. req::
    :id: R-98617
    :target: VNF PROVIDER
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF Provider **MUST** provide documentation regarding any dependency
    (e.g. affinity, anti-affinity) the VNF has on other VNFs and resources.

.. req::
    :id: R-22346
    :target: VNF or PNF PACKAGE
    :keyword: MUST
    :introduced: casablanca
    :updated: dublin
    :validation_mode: static

    The VNF or PNF package **MUST** provide :doc:`VES Event Registration <../../../../vnfsdk/model.git/docs/files/VESEventRegistration_3_0>`
    for all VES events provided by that VNF or PNF.

.. req::
   :id: R-384337
   :target: VNF
   :keyword: MUST
   :introduced: casablanca

   The VNF documentation **MUST** contain a list of the files within the VNF
   package that are static during the VNF's runtime.

.. req::
   :id: R-025941
   :target: VNF PROVIDER
   :keyword: MUST
   :introduced: dublin
   :impacts: DCAE,Documentation,Integration,SDC
   :validation_mode: static

   The VNF or PNF PROVIDER **MUST** provide FM Meta Data to support the
   analysis of fault events delivered to DCAE. The Meta Data must be
   included in the VES Registration YAML file with each fault event
   supported by that NF at onboarding time and the Meta Data must follow
   the VES Event Listener and VES Event Registration Specifications.

.. req::
   :id: R-816745
   :target: VNF or PNF PROVIDER
   :keyword: MUST
   :introduced: dublin
   :impacts: DCAE,Documentation,Integration,SDC
   :validation_mode: static

   The VNF or PNF PROVIDER *MUST* provide the Service Provider with
   PM Meta Data (PM Dictionary) to support the analysis of PM events delivered
   to DCAE. The PM Dictionary is to be provided as a separate YAML artifact at
   onboarding and must follow the VES Event Listener Specification and VES
   Event Registration Specification which contain the format and content
   required.

Resource Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


.. req::
    :id: R-89571
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF **MUST** support and provide artifacts for configuration
    management using at least one of the following technologies;
    a) Netconf/YANG, b) Chef, or c) Ansible.

    Note: The requirements for Netconf/YANG, Chef, and Ansible protocols
    are provided separately and must be supported only if the corresponding
    protocol option is provided by the xNF providor.


Configuration Management via NETCONF/YANG
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. req::
    :id: R-30278
    :target: VNF or PNF
    :keyword: SHOULD
    :updated: dublin

    The VNF or PNF provider **SHOULD** provide a Resource/Device YANG model
    as a foundation for creating the YANG model for configuration.

Configuration Management via Chef
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


.. req::
    :id: R-13390
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** provide cookbooks to be loaded
    on the appropriate Chef Server.

.. req::
    :id: R-18525
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** provide a JSON file for each
    supported action for the xNF. The JSON file must contain key value
    pairs with all relevant values populated with sample data that illustrates
    its usage. The fields and their description are defined in Tables A1
    and A2 in the Appendix.

    Note: Chef support in ONAP is not currently available and planned for 4Q 2017.


Configuration Management via Ansible
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


.. req::
    :id: R-75608
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** provide playbooks to be loaded
    on the appropriate Ansible Server.

.. req::
    :id: R-16777
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** provide a JSON file for each
    supported action for the xNF. The JSON file must contain key value
    pairs with all relevant values populated with sample data that illustrates
    its usage. The fields and their description are defined in Table B1
    in the Appendix.

.. req::
    :id: R-46567
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include configuration scripts
    for boot sequence and configuration.

.. req::
    :id: R-16065
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** provide configurable parameters
    (if unable to conform to YANG model) including xNF attributes/parameters
    and valid values, dynamic attributes and cross parameter dependencies
    (e.g., customer provisioning data).

Resource Control Loop
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


.. req::
    :id: R-22888
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** provide documentation for the xNF
    Policy Description to manage the xNF runtime lifecycle. The document
    must include a description of how the policies (conditions and actions)
    are implemented in the xNF.

.. req::
    :id: R-01556
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation describing the
    fault, performance, capacity events/alarms and other event records
    that are made available by the xNF.

.. req::
    :id: R-16875
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation which must include
    a unique identification string for the specific xNF, a description of
    the problem that caused the error, and steps or procedures to perform
    Root Cause Analysis and resolve the issue.

.. req::
    :id: R-35960
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation which must include
    all events, severity level (e.g., informational, warning, error) and
    descriptions including causes/fixes if applicable for the event.

.. req::
    :id: R-42018
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation which must include
    all events (fault, measurement for xNF Scaling, Syslogs, State Change
    and Mobile Flow), that need to be collected at each VM, VNFC (defined in `VNF Guidelines <https://onap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/submodules/vnfrqts/guidelines.git/docs/vnf_guidelines/vnf_guidelines.html>`__ ) and for the overall xNF.


.. req::
    :id: R-01478
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation describing all
    parameters that are available to monitor the xNF after instantiation
    (includes all counters, OIDs, PM data, KPIs, etc.) that must be
    collected for reporting purposes.

.. req::
    :id: R-73560
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation about monitoring
    parameters/counters exposed for virtual resource management and xNF
    application management.

.. req::
    :id: R-90632
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF Package **MUST** include documentation about KPIs and
    metrics that need to be collected at each VM for capacity planning
    and performance management purposes.

.. req::
    :id: R-86235
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation about the monitoring
    parameters that must include latencies, success rates, retry rates, load
    and quality (e.g., DPM) for the key transactions/functions supported by
    the xNF and those that must be exercised by the xNF in order to perform
    its function.

.. req::
    :id: R-33904
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation for each KPI, provide
    lower and upper limits.

.. req::
    :id: R-53598
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation to, when relevant,
    provide a threshold crossing alert point for each KPI and describe the
    significance of the threshold crossing.

.. req::
    :id: R-69877
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation for each KPI,
    identify the suggested actions that need to be performed when a
    threshold crossing alert event is recorded.

.. req::
    :id: R-22680
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation that describes
    any requirements for the monitoring component of tools for Network
    Cloud automation and management to provide these records to components
    of the xNF.

.. req::
    :id: R-33694
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation to when applicable,
    provide calculators needed to convert raw data into appropriate reporting
    artifacts.

.. req::
    :id: R-56815
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation describing
    supported xNF scaling capabilities and capacity limits (e.g., number
    of users, bandwidth, throughput, concurrent calls).

.. req::
    :id: R-48596
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF Package **MUST** include documentation describing
    the characteristics for the xNF reliability and high availability.



Compute, Network, and Storage Requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


.. req::
    :id: R-35851
    :target: VNF HEAT PACKAGE
    :keyword: MUST
    :updated: dublin

    The VNF HEAT Package **MUST** include VNF topology that describes basic
    network and application connectivity internal and external to the VNF
    including Link type, KPIs, Bandwidth, latency, jitter, QoS (if applicable)
    for each interface.

.. req::
    :id: R-97102
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF Package **MUST** include VM requirements via a Heat
    template that provides the necessary data for VM specifications
    for all VNF components - for hypervisor, CPU, memory, storage.

.. req::
    :id: R-20204
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF Package **MUST** include VM requirements via a Heat
    template that provides the necessary data for network connections,
    interface connections, internal and external to VNF.

.. req::
    :id: R-44896
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF Package **MUST** include VM requirements via a Heat
    template that provides the necessary data for high availability
    redundancy model.

.. req::
    :id: R-55802
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF Package **MUST** include VM requirements via a Heat
    template that provides the necessary data for scaling/growth VM
    specifications.

    Note: Must comply with the *Heat requirements in 5.b*.

.. req::
    :id: R-26881
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF provider **MUST** provide the binaries and images
    needed to instantiate the VNF (VNF and VNFC images).

.. req::
    :id: R-96634
    :target: VNF or PNF PROVIDER
    :keyword: MUST
    :updated: dublin

    The VNF or PNF Provider **MUST** provide human readable documentation
    (not in the on-boarding package) to describe scaling capabilities to manage
    scaling characteristics of the VNF or PNF.


Testing
^^^^^^^^^^

.. req::
    :id: R-43958
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST
    :updated: casablanca

    The VNF Package **MUST** include documentation describing
    the tests that were conducted by the VNF provider and the test results.

.. req::
    :id: R-04298
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF provider **MUST** provide their testing scripts to
    support testing.

.. req::
    :id: R-58775
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF provider **MUST** provide software components that
    can be packaged with/near the VNF, if needed, to simulate any functions
    or systems that connect to the VNF system under test. This component is
    necessary only if the existing testing environment does not have the
    necessary simulators.

Licensing Requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^


.. req::
    :id: R-85653
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF **MUST** provide metrics (e.g., number of sessions,
    number of subscribers, number of seats, etc.) to ONAP for tracking
    every license.

.. req::
    :id: R-44125
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** agree to the process that can
    be met by Service Provider reporting infrastructure. The Contract
    shall define the reporting process and the available reporting tools.

.. req::
    :id: R-40827
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** enumerate all of the open
    source licenses their xNF(s) incorporate.

.. req::
    :id: R-97293
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST NOT

    The xNF provider **MUST NOT** require audits
    of Service Provider's business.

.. req::
    :id: R-44569
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST NOT

    The xNF provider **MUST NOT** require additional
    infrastructure such as a xNF provider license server for xNF provider
    functions and metrics.

.. req::
    :id: R-13613
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF **MUST** provide clear measurements for licensing
    purposes to allow automated scale up/down by the management system.

.. req::
    :id: R-27511
    :target: VNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The VNF provider **MUST** provide the ability to scale
    up a VNF provider supplied product during growth and scale down a
    VNF provider supplied product during decline without "real-time"
    restrictions based upon VNF provider permissions.

.. req::
    :id: R-85991
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** provide a universal license key
    per xNF to be used as needed by services (i.e., not tied to a VM
    instance) as the recommended solution. The xNF provider may provide
    pools of Unique xNF License Keys, where there is a unique key for
    each xNF instance as an alternate solution. Licensing issues should
    be resolved without interrupting in-service xNFs.

.. req::
    :id: R-47849
    :target: XNF
    :keyword: MUST

    The xNF provider **MUST** support the metadata about
    licenses (and their applicable entitlements) as defined in this
    document for xNF software, and any license keys required to authorize
    use of the xNF software.  This metadata will be used to facilitate
    onboarding the xNF into the ONAP environment and automating processes
    for putting the licenses into use and managing the full lifecycle of
    the licenses. The details of this license model are described in
    Tables C1 to C8 in the Appendix.

    Note: License metadata support in ONAP is not currently available
    and planned for 1Q 2018.
